The 2023 Regional Convention of Jehovah's Witnesses featured the two-part modern-day drama
commit your way to Jehovah.
Based on real events, this presentation was designed to strengthen our faith and build
confidence in Jehovah.
According to the United Nations, by the end of 2022, about 108 million people were living
as forcibly displaced persons worldwide.
This is 20 million people more than the previous year.
Our brothers and sisters are by no means immune to this crisis.
Civil unrest, warfare, natural disasters, and other trials test our trust in Jehovah's
way of sustaining his people.
Proverbs 163 tells us, commit to Jehovah, whatever you do, and your plans will succeed.
Thousands of thousands of our brothers and sisters have been displaced from their homes
or live in refugee camps.
Through the respective branch committees, the governing body assures that the basic needs
of displaced ones are cared for.
Of course, priority is given to such spiritual activities as preaching, meeting together,
and shepherding.
Jehovah prepares his people to endure uncertainty with patience by depicting real-life scenarios
of what has happened and continues to happen in many nations.
Although the heartbreak and pain associated with living as a refugee cannot completely
be captured by video, the teaching committee directed audio video services to produce
a feature-length modern-day drama set in Africa.
This video presents practical lessons that will help prepare us for future events as we
approach the Great Tribulation.
During the development phase of the video, interviews with numerous brothers and sisters
who have been refugees helped to refine the script.
Additional consultants from Africa helped to keep the account authentic.
Then came COVID-19.
In early 2020, the impact of COVID-19 was still unknown.
Initially, it was felt their production in South Africa could still occur.
However, when COVID-19 became a pandemic, the teaching committee determined that the
project had to be filmed in the United States, filming needed to start by May 2021.
This meant that a lot of the preliminary preparation had to be drastically changed or
completely abandoned.
Since so much of the story was to take place outdoors, could locations in New York State
pass for Africa?
Would it be believable?
At first, only Patterson Bethel would be used for site locations.
Later, Wal-Kill Bethel provided locations for the project.
Casting selection by audio video services was done remotely.
Perspective cast members received written and video instructions to record their own audition.
These self-guided auditions proved invaluable.
These brothers and sisters from outside of Bethel showed a self-sacrificing spirit.
They willingly made extra adjustments to promote a safe, peaceful and joyful production environment.
While some of the cast could continue their secular work in schooling remotely, others put
their lives on hold, leaving their jobs for the entire filming period.
During production, the team followed COVID-19 protocols in line with local authorities.
As circumstances and protocols changed, the team adapted.
Many Bethel family members were used in the cast.
These included some who were born in Africa and had even experienced life as refugees.
The time to develop computer-generated 3D sets to depict Africa had long passed.
Given the circumstances, the support from Africa would continue throughout production to
foster authenticity.
Their help proved invaluable.
The Patterson team collaborated with South Africa regarding casting, prop design, set construction,
locations and wardrobe.
For example, certain fabric patterns could denote a particular religion or even political
affiliation.
So these had to be avoided in production.
The message of the video needed to reach all viewers.
Therefore, we did not depict specific regions in Africa.
So care was given not to draw too much attention to a specific nation, tribe, people or language.
The set for the refugee camp proved to be realistic.
Some in the community around Patterson Bethel believed there had been an actual refugee
camp established.
The local news media and local government officials responded to assure the public that a video
project by Jehovah's Witnesses had been approved.
And they clarified that what could be seen from the road was not a refugee camp.
This highlighted just how realistic the set was.
Well-rehearsed camera movement, along with specific props based on collaborative research,
would help the northeastern United States pass for some regions found in Africa.
After filming, Bethel family members from Congo, Kinshasa helped produce a musical score
and sound design that enabled the viewer to settle into this story of faith in Jehovah
during trying times.
The objective of every project of Jehovah's organization is to praise our great God.
Regardless of the project, whether video, translation, construction or anything else,
we need peace and harmony to receive Jehovah's spirit and to accomplish his work.
This requires trusting our brothers and sisters, being open to new ideas, and encouraging
a free flow of communication.
For this video, no one single group had all the answers or solutions.
Ultimately, Jehovah made it a success.
Jesus said at Matthew 19 verse 26, with men, this is impossible.
But with God, all things are possible.
The production of this video was truly an object lesson for all of us.
When we commit to Jehovah, whatever we do, our plans will certainly succeed.
Although we live in trouble sometimes, with Jehovah's support, we can face the future with
confidence.